Hello and welcome back to the A.I.M. class in today's tutorial we're talking about the memorization
trick for rational Ardern coders.
So let's have a look.
Here we have our variational or Ann Coulter.
And as we discussed previously effectivity this is an online coder where we replaced the bottleneck
which is sort of one latent act on its own with a distribution.
So now we're taking our inputs and rather than mapping them straight onto the latent vector we're mapping
them onto a mean vector in a standard deviation vector from.
So which which are actually which constitute our distribution.
And from this distribution we sample the late vector so every time we sample laserdiscs or we get a
slightly varying result and then we use the sample Laken vector to perform the decoding.
So that allows us to accomplish that took a city or randomness that we are looking for in the variational
or encoder.
Now how do you actually train a variation on code or what will happen when we run back for progression.
Well this is what will happen when we're running backwardation goes here and then right away as soon
as it gets to the simple plate and Vector it's going to encounter a problem because there is still a
in this latent vector and so basically we're sampling it and we cannot run back propagation through
this the caustic latent vector.
So that's a problem.
And how do we resolve this problem.
Well this is where the reaper ization trick comes in handy.
What is suggested is quite a simple solution.
What we're going to do is we're going to take this latent vector sample data vector and we're going
to we're presented in the following way.
Zed our sample data vector is actually going to be a combination of the mean vector the myu plus the
standard deviation of Sigma Wasfi by Epsilon where Epsilon is actually going to be the stochastic node.
So rather than performing a 660 here or performing the sampling here in this latent vector itself we're
going to separate out the sampling into its own separate node and that way is going to allow us to run
by provision.
So let's have a look in a schematic or at a schematic or a presentation of this so we can so it becomes
a bit clearer.
So here is our original version of our.
As you can see we're taking the mean vector and standard deviation vector we're using them inside the
latent vector of the sample plate and vector.
We're using them inside here to perform the sampling of the latent vector and then we're proceeding
with the decoding.
Whereas in the now so that's where the problem occurs we cannot go back for progression can go through
this sticker system.
So this is where the repurposed ization trick comes in handy comes to the rescue because what we're
doing now is rather than doing the sampling within this node within this vector we're actually separating
out the sampling into its own separate node.
So Epsilon is just going to be a way for us to introduce randomness into this equation so it's just
great to be a standard deviation is that a distribution offer.
I mean all the zeros and division of one.
There's nothing special about it we don't actually need to train it whereas everything else that we
do want to train is easily accessible tabac propagations about arrogation just simply runs through it
because there is no randomness here.
In fact the randomness is separate out in its own node and as we can see here we don't need to worry
about this we don't want to train it anyway whereas everything we do want to train is very very straightforward
for backwardation.
So that's how the repair mineralization trick works in a nutshell.
You'll actually see all this in the practical tutorial so when you'll be flying alone along with our
love to the code you will create this move vector the Sigma vector the epsilon vector and then all of
the code that you put it together you'll just remember this diagram and it will all it all come together
in your mind as well.
And so that's the intuition behind them ization.
If you'd like to learn more about it then there's a paper on archive which is called auto encoding variational
Beys by Kingma and Wehling.
And this is where there are privatization trick.
Originally first was introduced.
So check it out if you want to learn more.
And I look forward to seeing you back here next time.
Until then enjoy artificial intelligence.